# Why engagement at work matters and how it can be enhanced for a better workplace 

The cost of nurturing disengaged employees can be very high for the corporates. Disengaged employees lack motivation, which clearly reflects in their work. This becomes even worse, when they spread their negativity to their engaged counterparts. Therefore corporates must aim at 100% engagement. This blog talks about some no-fail interventions, that works well with the employees in enhancing the engagement levels.

## Encourage personal projects
Companies should develop a caring approach towards its employees by letting them spend some time on their personal projects in order to enhance their creativity and increase their commitment and engagement towards the organisation.

## Assign mentor for discrete groups of people
Disengaged employees often drag down the morale and performance potential of the engaged ones, affecting the overall work quality. A good mentoring in such situation helps the employees in becoming more clear and focused about their roles and goals for themselves as well as for the organisation.

## Celebrate their achievements
To motivate and inspire employees for better engagement, managers need to encourage them for their achievements, success and other events by keeping their records via pictures, and posting them on walls of fame and other various places to acknowledge them.

## Inculcate culture of volunteering
Employees who volunteer, usually display a sense of satisfaction with their progress in career, which facilitates more commitment and engagement of employees towards their work. Hence, a culture of volunteering should be inculcated at the very root level.

## Salary rise
Employees in the organisations are intensely influenced by the compensation structure of it. These monetary rewards- pay and benefits, play a major role in retaining the employees, and in the desire of continuing these benefits, employees try to involve more of themselves into the work.

## Recognise and encourage innovations
A large portion of the workforce in an organisation comprises of millennials today. These millennials are more open-minded towards change and innovations. Encouraging them to express their ideas foster the feeling of attachment with the organisation.

## Showing respect
Most employers respect their employees’ opinions, ideas and working style. When employees get the respect they deserve from their leaders, they are less likely to leave the company. As in many cases, it has been seen that employees who quit their jobs, were unhappy with their boss.

## Empowering employees
Employees when given the freedom or the power to make decisions, see themselves as a valued part of the organisation and feel greater responsibility towards the organisation. Sometimes this collective decision also brings new perspective and ideas in the work, and this involvement leads to better commitment, better engagement and better productivity.

## Socialising with employees
In order to engage employees in work, it is a prerequisite for leaders to engage with them socially. This type of culture at work boosts a feeling of belongingness and helps in retaining employees.

For a sustainable growth of the organisations, executives must promote and adopt these interventions. They can select the relevant intervention that is best suited for its employees. Executives must also focus on personal development and career growth of the employees apart from the official projects and assignments to enhance the engagement and sustainability. Also they must not neglect the disengaged employees, rather should aim at engaging them too with the help of these interventions.
